---
layout: post
title: "Project Homeless Connect"
date: 2014-12-17
image: /img/phc.png
---
[Project Homeless Connect](http://www.projecthomelessconnect.com/) is a nonprofit in San Francisco which hosts public events for the 75,000 homeless in San Francisco, where they can get social and medical services.  I worked with four others from [Cal Blueprint](http://calblueprint.org) to build an Android app that volunteers could use to check in clients. The purpose is to make the events that they host more efficient by decreasing registration time, preventing loss of sensitive information, and eliminating post-event data entry.

Before, volunteers would check in clients by writing their information and services that they requested down on carbon paper, and then give them a copy that they could show to the various service stations in the event space. This was problematic because clients would be carrying around a piece of paper with all sorts of sensitive information (social security number, name, address, etc) which could be easily lost. In addition, volunteers would have to literally work around the clock manually entering the information collected into a Salesforce database. Finally, check-in was typically slow.

Our team was able to address all of these problems, and though the app that I worked on had a lot of bugs, the next deployment at a PHC 58 in March was _extremely_ successful, checking in people much faster than ever before with an interface that all the diverse volunteers easily understood with just a few minutes of explanation.

This was my first experience both designing a user interface as well as writing Android code, and I learned a lot about both of these in a fast-paced environment with lots of feedback from our wonderful contact Kate. One of the things I definitely learned was always having the target user in mind when designing an interface &mdash; for example, my first iterations contained a lot of small text and buttons on each page, but Kate explained that the volunteers might benefit from larger text and buttons, even though there might be more screens in that case.

Kudos to the teams from both semester who worked on this app, and cheers to Kate for a well-specced project, great feedback, and giving us all the opportunity to make a difference in our community.  Project Homeless Connect is probably Blueprint's most successful project to date, and I'm extremely grateful to have been a part of it.
