---
layout: post
title: "Pedigree"
date: 2017-02-11 17:35:00 -0800
permalink: /pedigree/
---

_This is a post in a series about looking for a job. For some background context, see this post: INSERT_POST_HERE_

One of the factors I had in mind in my job search was pedigree. The bulk of my experience thus far had been in the startup world, where success is sparse and brand recognition is tough to come by. Though I felt that Operator had helped shape me into a competent engineer, I wasn't sure if my resume would accurately reflect the skills and confident I had. I was worried people would think less of me due to Operator not being a household name.

One of the reasons I felt this way was that I personally use pedigree as a weak indicator of skills. Having been on both sides of the job panel, I have found that the resume -- whichever format, paper, LinkedIn, etc -- isn't really a great indicator of skills. Candidates have a direct incentive to flourish their prior work experience, which makes it tough for other people to understand one's capabilities. Similarly, there are also many people who either due to lack of effort or lack of interest, don't polish up their resume at all; yet, they're extremely bright.

Therefore, the easiest indicator of skills is pedigree -- if you know what the bar at Facebook or Google is like, and this person worked there, then that provides a stronger indicator than words on a piece of paper.

This made for a strong case for me to look for a job at a company well-known for it's engineering talent bar, but all of the companies I could think of did not pass the crucial filter that primarily started this job search: working in the healthcare or education spaces with a strong social mission. Thus, I was in a conundrum.

However, I later had the chance to chat with one of my former coworkers, who is far more experienced, about the value of pedigree. He acknowledged that it is a common indicator, and that going through the job application process is a lot easier with some common ground than without. However, he also noted that not too far after his career began, he didn't have much interaction with the cold job application process. Rather, most of the opportunities came through his network -- whether it was reaching out to a former coworker at an interesting new venture, or a friend wanting to connect him with a new person seeking engineering talent, or any of the many reasons for two talented people with opportunities to connect. Through this mechanism, what's on your resume becomes drastically less important, because there is already an advocate at your side from your network. You are able to skip the first step of the interview process.

Pedigree is important, but it's not a necessity, because it's just a weak indicator of skills. Keyword, weak.
